# SpaceCode
SpaceCode aims to solve the problem of students not being able to grasp fundamental concepts like Object Oriented Programming and computational thinking by gamifying the process of learning, making them program a spaceship in a game, for a more engaging and enjoyable introduction to programming.

For me I see the ability to program as a special power that enables me to create what I can imagine. I find the process of creating software exciting as by the end of the day I would have created something I can marvel at while improving my skills project by project. Moreover, programming is becoming more of an essential skill in today’s world.

As such it really disheartens me when I see people giving up on learning how to code as they didn’t have the right start. My intention with SpaceCode was to share the joy of programming. I wanted an enjoyable but educational user experience where people would learn to love computational thinking, problem solving and Object Oriented Programming (OOP). 

The app would be targeted at teenagers, especially those who may be taking Computing as a subject. 
I had learnt from my classmates in my Computing class that the main reason why they dislike programming is due to not understanding the syntax and logic behind it. However, I also see those same classmates spending hours on games that I can’t even comprehend. This made me realise that they are really being deterred by the fact that programming was presented as a mundane task to them. 

To make learning engaging I had to maximise interaction as much as possible. Unlike the traditional manner of learning through reading textbooks in schools or through lectures, SpaceCode teaches concepts using a captivating storyline, quizzes and simulations to show the output of code visually.

SpaceCode uses JavaScriptCore to evaluate the user generated JavaScript code. The JavaScript generated by the user is then put into a JavaScript code template which then determines the values of certain variables as the game progresses using the user’s code. The output is then used by a SpriteKitScene which uses those values to run the game as if it is being processed in real time. I also used some SKEmitterNodes for some background patterns.

Essentially, SpaceCode helps people learn more about programming in an innovative, engaging manner. Hopefully changing the users’ views on programming as an enjoyable activity gives them the power to create whatever their minds can think of. 

Just like Steve Jobs once said: “Give people wonderful tools, and they'll do wonderful things.”
I believe that programming can be a ‘wonderful tool’ to enable people to do wonderful things.

